what:		feedmbox.rb
version:	1.0.0
description:	Script to translate RSS 2.0, ATOM 1.0, and RSS 1.0 feeds into
		mbox format, using OPML to specify the feeds to poll.
author:		Chip Camden
date:		March, 2011
requires:	rubygems, nokogiri, mechanize, mailfactory, htmlentities, sqlite3
usage: feedmbox.rb [-hv] [-d FILE] [-t RECIPIENT]
    -d, --database FILE              Specify database location
    -h, --help                       Print helpful information
    -t, --to RECIPIENT               Specify recipient
    -v, --verbose                    Verbose output on stderr

This script takes as its input an OPML document describing the feeds to poll.
You can pipe that on stdin, or list it as a file argument.  Any <outline>
element in the OPML document that has a type equal to "rss" or "atom" is
considered a feed.

The database file (specified with -d, defaulting to ~/.feedmbox) is used to
keep track of what feed items have been seen before.  This database contains
the unique identifier for each item that has been previously encountered.
The identifier is constructed from the feed's XML url and one of the following:
an RSS "guid" element, an ATOM "id" element, or the link to the item.

If an item has not been seen before, then it is converted into an email
message and sent to stdout.  Thus, you can populate an mbox-formatted email
folder by simply appending the output of this script to the desired folder.

If you delete the database, or specify one that does not exist, it will be
created.  On the first polling, all items from all feeds will be produced.

The -t (--to) option specifies the email recipient.  This is only used for
the content of the "To:" email header.  If not specified, it defaults to
"nobody@example.com".

If the -v (--verbose) option is specified, progress information will be
sent to stderr.  This includes the title of each feed as it is polled, and
the number of new items found (if any).  If -v is not specified, only errors
will go to stderr.

EMAIL HEADERS

Feedmbox adds the following email headers:

Content-Location:	the feed's <link> destination
Date:			the date the item was published
From:			the feed title
List-Id:		the feed title <feed xml url>
Subject:		the title of the item
To:			the recipient (as specified by the -t or --to switch)
X-Feed-Subtitle:	the feed's subtitle
X-Item-Author:		the author of the item
X-Item-Category:	the categories for the item
X-Item-Link:		the link to the current item's web page

EMAIL CONTENT

Feedmbox converts the item content to plain text.  It removes any scripts or
styling, and attempts to replace other HTML tags with sane text equivalents.
Links and images are footnoted to their URIs.
END
